All right, so in this video, we're going to implement the functionality for our in screen in on click
OK, so basically actually logging in the user in the view model.
And this is going to be quite easy because we've already put in place most of the framework and most
of the code that we need for that we already have, for example, the get user data method that we can
call without any issues.
And also, we know exactly how we can log in our user.
Since we have an example in sign up, it's going to be just slightly different.
However, the first thing I want to do is I want to fix a small bug that I forgot in previous videos,
which is if I simply click the button in the sign up screen without entering any information here,
our application will crash.
So that is quite easy to fix.
Here in on sign up, we need to introduce a check for all these values.
OK, so I'm going to say if username dot is empty or email dot is empty or pass.
Dot is empty, then I simply want to put up an exception.
It's not really an exception, but it's just a custom message.
And I can say something like, please fill in.
Paul Fields, OK, and then I can simply return so that I don't run the rest of the code.
So that should fix our problem.
All right, is doing some operations in the background, just retrieving the user information since
we are actually logged in, keep that in mind.
We just don't see the outcome of that operation.
But here, if I simply sign up, I will get please fill in all fields.
OK, so that takes care of our issue.
Now let's move on to implementing the on logging function of our code.
So here right below on sign up, I'm going to say fun on logging and I'm going to have a username.
Actually, I don't have username.
I just have email.
Of type, string and password or parts of type string.
All right, so I have these two values here.
So again, we need to introduce that check if email dot is empty or pass.
Dot is empty.
Then we can handle the same exception, actually.
Let's just copy and paste.
OK, we have that exception with pretty much the same message, and we can return if we pass this check,
then we can go ahead and do the processing.
So first of all, let's set the flag in progress.
Dot value equals true.
Then Boss Dot signing with email and password.
OK, so before we had.
First, we were retweeting the username to check that it is unique, but then we have create user with
email and password.
Now we have sign in with email and password and here we can pass the email and pass.
Of course, we have an add on complete.
On complete listener, and we have an add on failure listener now for the complete listener, we get
a task.
And we can say if the task is successful.
Then we are basically signed in and we can do what we need to write so we can set the flag signed in,
that value is going to be true then in progress.
The value is going to be false.
We have finished our operation.
And then we can say also that current user thought ID, this is knowable, so we need to do that check.
But of course, here it should be no issue.
There should be no issues, but obviously we need to check.
And here we have our I.D..
And here, of course, we need to get user data with this.
OK, so retrieve that information.
Now, why is it saying that UID might be no.
I think I forgot the question mark here.
There it is.
So you at this point is no longer know so we can get user data.
Now we need to handle any exception that might occur.
So for example, here, if the task is not successful, then we can handle the exception task.
That exception, with the message log in failed and then we can set in progress.
Dot value equals false.
OK, and again, in the on failure, the sooner, this is obviously an exception, so let's call it
e x c for exception.
And here we can do the same thing.
Handle exception with e x c and the message in failed.
And then in progress, the value is going to be false.
So that's pretty much it for the operation, of course, we need to call this method, so let's go to
our login screen and here in the not in the text, but in the button on Click.
After we clear the focus, we can say the dot on logging with email state dot value dot to string and
with past state dot value dot to string.
OK, so basically, we call this when we click the button.
Now, before I test this, I want to simply call this method here on DOT.
Sign out.
OK, so that by default, when we when the application runs, the user is signed out and then we can
log in.
And since we don't actually see any outcome here, let's put a notification just to see a message on
the screen when we do retrieve this or we do finish this operation successfully.
So I'm going to say hello exception, even though it's not an exception.
We're just going to pass the custom message logging success.
I think that's correctly spelled.
OK, so let's go ahead and run this and see if we get a log in.
All right, so let's switch to log in, and I think I have a user, John, at gmail.com, you might
have a different user click logging.
And we should get a message.
Once this operation finishes.
So I get a message this email is badly formatted, which simply means that I've passed the wrong elements
here, right?
So instead of two string, I need the dot text value for the email and passwords.
OK, it's not, let's assume, because that will just convert the whole object to a string, and that's
not what we want.
So let's run again.
All right, switch to log in, John, at Gmail dot com.
One two three four five six.
Click Log In.
My recording software is causing this kind of jitteriness, but you should have no problem and you see
here that we have a logging success.
The only issue is that this banner has disappeared as well because it was retrieving the data.
OK, so we have a call to the get user data function, which shows the spinner again.
So I think at this point, we are able to do our authentication either through a sign up or a log in.
And I think the next move that we need to do to kind of wrap this whole thing up and finish with authentication
is to move the the user to a new screen once the authentication has been completed one way or another.
OK, so we will do that in the next video.